---
title: "Investigating individual differences in latent structure learning in a changing environment"
collection: talks
permalink: /talks/SNE18
type: "Poster"
venue: "18th Society for Neuroeconomics Annual Meeting"
location: "Virtual"
url: "https://neuroeconomics.org/past-conferences/"
date: 2020-10-14
---

## Authors
<b>Evan M. Dastin-van Rijn</b>\*, Linda Q. Yu\*, Alexandre Filipowicz, Zhiyi Chen, Tingyong Feng, Matthew R. Nassar<br/>
\* equal contribution

## Abstract
<b>Objective</b><br/>
Whether faced with the volatility of the stock market or the availability of goods on grocery store shelves during the pandemic, it is important to learn adaptively in changing environments. Critical to successful adaptive learning is the ability to identify the relevant causal aspects of the environment (known as latent structure) in order to figure out which changes are enduring and which are momentary. For example, is that dip in the stock market indicative of a true crash, or just the latest jitters from the news cycle? Is the shortage of toilet paper indicative of a breakdown in the supply chain, or is the local store just temporarily in between restocking?  Individuals exhibit great variability in how much they change behavior in response to deviations from expectations, and in how well they recognize latent structure in tasks. Which characteristics underlie these individual differences are not well known, but identifying them would be beneficial for policy, business, and health interventions. The objective of this study is to characterize the neural and behavioral architecture of individual differences in latent structure and adaptive learning in a large sample of participants.<br/>
<b>Methods</b><br/>
We analyze behavioral and resting state fMRI data in 294 individuals who performed a predictive learning task. In the task, participants have to infer the locations of two hidden helicopters, based on the gold bags that are dropped in Gaussian distributions around each (the helicopters trade off on dropping bags). Participant behavior is fit with a weighted linear combination of a standard Rescorla-Wagner (RW) and a Bayesian ideal observer (IO) model in order to capture the degree to which they utilize latent learning. We also correlate the relative weight of latent learning from this hybrid model with individual differences in resting state functional connectivity.<br/>
<b>Results</b><br/>
For the majority of the participants, the hybrid model was found to fit behavior better than either a RW or IO model alone. A median split on the weight of combination showed that participants fit by a more IO-like model had updates that were significantly more influenced by the true position of the helicopter as the task progressed (2 sample t-test, p<10-6). Ongoing analyses seek to identify subnetworks that are strengthened in individuals whose behavior is most influenced by latent states.<br/>
<b>Conclusion</b><br/>
Participants fall along a continuum in their usage of RW vs. latent learning strategies, and their relative weights of latent learning describe their success on learning the task structure over time.
